[ADD] General: Multi Company (#9960)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/multi_company.rst

=============
Multi-company
=============

.. |mcd| replace:: multi-company database

In Odoo, multiple companies can exist within a single database. This allows for some data to be
shared among companies, while still maintaining some level of separation between entities.

Before deciding to use the multi-company feature, there are several factors to consider.

.. important::

>    Multi-company is **only** available in One-app free databases, or with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Multi-company is **only** available in one-app free databases, or with
```

   `Custom <https://www.odoo.com/pricing-plan>`_ plans.

Accessing multiple companies
============================

> The list of companies an employee :ref:`has access <general/employee-access>` to in a |mcd| can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of companies an employee :ref:`has access <general/employee-access>` to in a |mcd|, can be
```

found at the top-right of the main Odoo menu bar, where the active company is listed. Click on the
company name to reveal a list of all allowed companies. To switch to a different company, click on

> the company name. To enable multiple companies at once, tick the checkbox next to each applicable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the company name from the drop-down menu. To enable multiple companies at once, tick the checkbox next to each desired
```

company name.

.. figure:: multi_company/company-access.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An example of the list of companies a user has access to when logged into a database.

   An example of a user with access to multiple companies. The current company is My Company (San
   Francisco), while My Company (Chicago) is also active.

.. note::
   The database may refresh after each checkbox is ticked.

.. _general/active-companies:

Multiple active companies
-------------------------

If more than one company is active at a time, one company is highlighted in purple, and is listed on
the menu bar. This is the considered the *current* company.

> When creating a new record, the *current* company is added to the record in the :guilabel:`Company`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a new record, the *current* company is added to the record in the *Company*
```
suggesting the use of italics here, because there is no *specific* field with this name that is currently being discussed/shown on the screen/UI

field, except under the following circumstances:

> - The :guilabel:`Company` field for a new product or a new contact is left blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The *Company* field for a new product, or a new contact, is left blank.
```

> - If there is a related document already in the system, the :guilabel:`Company` field on the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is a related document already in the system, the *Company* field on the new
```

  record defaults to the same company.

.. example::
   Mitchell Admin has multiple companies enabled, but the active company is `My Company (Chicago)`.

>    When he creates a new product record, the :guilabel:`Company` field is left blank by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When he creates a new product record, the *Company* field is left blank, by default.
```

>    When he creates a new sales team, the :guilabel:`Company` field automatically defaults to `My

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When he creates a new sales team, the *Company* field automatically defaults to `My
```

   Company (Chicago)`.

Sharing data
============

In a |mcd|, certain records are able to be utilized by all of the companies (or several, based on
permissions).

Products
--------

In an |mcd|, new products are created with the :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>`
blank, by default. If the field remains blank, the product is shared across all companies.

> :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>`

Reviewer: was this ref meant to stand alone as-is? Or was it intended to be more organically worked into this portion of the doc. Just something to think about during your revisions.

Author: It was accidentally left in during edits  :) Thank you for catching that!

Contacts
--------

Similar to products, contact records are shared across companies, by default. To limit access to a

> single company, click the :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>` and select a company to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single company, click the :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>` on a contact form, and select a company to
```

assign the contact to.

Inter-company transactions
==========================

The :ref:`Inter-Company Transactions <general/inter-company>` feature allows for one company in the
database to sell or purchase goods and services from another company within the same database.
Counterpart documents for orders and invoices can be automatically generated and synchronized,
depending on the configuration settings.

.. warning::
   To ensure inter-company transactions are handled appropriately, certain configurations, such as
   fiscal positions and localizations, need to be accurately assigned. See :ref:`Inter-Company
   Transactions <general/inter-company>` for additional information.

Use cases
=========

Use case #1
-----------

> A multinational retail chain, which operates in both the United States and Canada, needs to manage
> transactions in both USD and CAD currencies. Additionally, because both countries have different tax
> laws and regulations, it is in the best interest of the customer to utilize the multi-company
> feature. This allows for inter-company transactions that they will need to manage inventory moves
> across international boarders, while making it simple to sell to customers in both countries in
> their own currency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multinational retail chain, which operates in the United States and Canada, needs to manage
transactions in both USD and CAD currencies. 

Additionally, because both countries have different tax laws and regulations, it is in the best interest
of the customer to utilize the multi-company feature. 

This allows for inter-company transactions they need in order to manage inventory moves across international borders, while making it simple to sell to customers in both countries in their own currency.
```

Use case #2
-----------

A small furniture company is developing a new line of products that require a separate procurement,
inventory, and manufacturing process. The new products are drastically different from the existing
catalog. The company is considering utilizing the multi-company feature to treat this new line
as a different entity.

To keep their database from becoming overly complex, the furniture company does not need to add an

> entirely new company. Instead, they can take advantage of existing features such as :doc:`analytic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
entirely new company. Instead, they can take advantage of existing features, such as :doc:`analytic
```

permissions).

Products
--------

In an |mcd|, new products are created with the :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>`
blank, by default. If the field remains blank, the product is shared across all companies.

Contacts
--------

Similar to products, contact records are shared across companies, by default. To limit access to a
single company, click the :ref:`company field <general/active-companies>` on a contact form, and
select a company to assign the contact to.

Inter-company transactions
==========================

The :ref:`Inter-Company Transactions <general/inter-company>` feature allows for one company in the
database to sell or purchase goods and services from another company within the same database.
Counterpart documents for orders and invoices can be automatically generated and synchronized,
depending on the configuration settings.

.. warning::
   To ensure inter-company transactions are handled appropriately, certain configurations, such as
   fiscal positions and localizations, need to be accurately assigned. See :ref:`Inter-Company
   Transactions <general/inter-company>` for additional information.

Use cases
=========

> Use case #1
> -----------

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to use a descriptive heading, only because "Use case #" doesnt give any context to the use case itself
```suggestion
Multinational companies
-----------------------
```

A multinational retail chain, which operates in the United States and Canada, needs to manage
transactions in both USD and CAD currencies.

Additionally, because both countries have different tax laws and regulations, it is in the best
interest of the customer to utilize the multi-company feature.

This allows for inter-company transactions they need to manage inventory moves across international
borders, while making it simple to sell to customers in both countries in their own currency.

> Use case #2
> -----------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Separate processes
------------------
```
